---
layout: page
group: core
level: 1
title: 2.6 Template Resource URL
---

For every resource kind, there is a special URL that returns a “template
resource”. For example, the following URL returns a template account resource:

<pre>http://www.exammple.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/accounts/$template</pre>

<table class="content" print-width="100%" width="100%">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th>

**Example**

</th>
<th>

**Component Name**

</th>
<th>

**Description / Comments**

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

$template

</td>
<td valign="top">

Template keyword

</td>
<td>

Special syntax to refer to&nbsp;a resource template

This URL returns the template as an Atom entry.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

The template resource allows a service consumer to obtain the resource's
default property values. For example, the URL in the example could be used to
fill the contents of a “Create Account” form.

The <tt>$template</tt> segment is valid after the
[resource kind](1.1 Terminology "1.1 Terminology") segment (<tt>accounts</tt> in the
example).

SData also allows the $template segment after a service operation segment or
a named query segment. See [Operation Template](11.7 Operation Template "11.7 Operation Template") and
[Named Query Template](12.4 Named Query Template "12.4 Named Query Template") sections for details.

Template resources are usually read only, but some applications could expose
them in read/write mode, typically&nbsp;to admin accounts.

SData providers MUST support the <tt>$template</tt> URL on all
resources kinds that support the create operation (that have the
<tt>sme:canPost</tt> attribute set to true - see
[Resource Kind Definition](4.2 Resource Kind Definition "4.2 Resource Kind Definition")). SData providers MAY
support <tt>$template</tt> URLs on service operations or named queries. If so,
they MUST advertise it with an <tt>sme:hasTemplate</tt> attribute in the schema.
See [Operation Template](11.7 Operation Template "11.7 Operation Template") and
[Named Query Template](12.4 Named Query Template "12.4 Named Query Template") sections for details.

* * *