---
layout: page
group: 20
level: 1
title: SData 2.0 is a protocol toolkit
---

The path we originally followed with SData was to develop a fairly stringent definition frame, enabling 
Sage applications to produce reusable solutions. The primary goal was to provide the primitives for 
application integration, specifically the CRM-ERP integration. This orientation was reflected in many of 
the decisions taken by the standardizing body, leading to a result that was viable for application 
integration but too heavy for more casual scenarios.

There are a number of lessons learned from past experience, but probably the most fundamental is that 
there will always be a number of scenarios that are not be well served by rules aimed at solving a totally 
different use case. Recognizing this, the working group decided to take the approach of positioning 
SData as a protocol toolkit.

SData should consist of:

* a small, required set of essentials
* complemented by a wide variety of mechanisms and techniques that are solution orientated

The core is quickly described:

* compliance with HTTP rules and definitions
* adherence to one of the SData supported formats, ATOM or JSON

Most of the existing requirements are relaxed, allowing teams more freedom of decision in their 
implementations.

The mechanisms are solutions to general, day-to-day problems: how to do paging, how to invoke 
operations, etc. They represent a collection of ready-made solutions, potentially backed by community 
solutions available to SData implementers. There is no requirement to use a specific toolkit member, but 
existent solutions must be considered prior to designing new ones.

We believe that, by stressing the liberality of SData and allowing teams to select those aspects 
meaningful to them, we will see implementations that are light-weight, agile, quickly delivered and 
tailor-made to the business needs.

***