---
layout: page
group: 20
level: 0
title: Core
---

## Motivation and purpose

A clear and concise definition of SData is one of the primary goals for the 2.0 version. 

The SData standard is a comprehensive specification capable of handling even the most complex 
business cases that might require synchronization, paging, discoverability, etc. In the past, teams building 
SData providers believed they had to implement everything mentioned in the SData 1.x standard, even 
features not required by their particular business case. In some instances this lead to the perception that 
building an SData provider was more difficult to create than it was really the case.

SData 2.0 can be viewed as a web toolkit consisting of a small set of required core features and many 
optional features that solve frequently encountered problems. This document will capture and define 
the small number of core features that make up the 'SData 2.0 core'.

In addition to clarifying and simplifying the standard, this document also introduces JSON as a new 
optional format for SData payloads. JSON is ideally suited to some business cases like mobility because 
it's less verbose then ATOM/XML. This document will not provide a complete JSON specification but it 
will compare and contrast JSON and ATOM formats defined in SData 2.0.

## Aims

This paper designates and describes the central aspects of SData, yielding the 'core' of the specification. 
The document does <u>not</u> contain the <u>official text</u> of the core itself - it points out the fundamentals, leaving
the global community presentation of the topics open for future work.

This document will:

*  Identify the SData 2.0 fundamental aspects and establish the relation to their counterparts in the 1.x version of the standard
*  Re-define compliance levels(MUST/SHOULD/MAY) on core aspects
*  Deprecate outdated features or solutions

## Fundamental SData aspects

**SData 2.0 ensures that version 1.x compliant implementations are equally compliant with the new version of the standard.** This is achieved by:

*  Relaxing existing compliance levels thus making even more aspect optional
*  Adding new, optional features
*  Deprecation of features where better technological answers have emerged in the meantime

The SData core identifies the aspects essential to the philosophy of the standard. An essential aspect 
does not imply that its components must be implemented in their entirety to achieve compliance; the 
degree of choice is indicated by the (MUST/SHOULD/MAY) qualifiers; these may be tightened further by
underlying contracts.

The SData fundamental aspects are recognized to be:

*  SData URL 
*  SData payload formatting
*  Requesting content formats
*  Operations
*  Authorization
*  Status and error conditions

These are discussed in turn in the following chapters of this document. Unless specifically stated, the 
definitions in the SData 1.x standard maintain their validity in the SData 2.0 standard.

## SData URL

The SData URL is responsible for resource addressing and represents the tie-in with the REST 
architectural style. The current specification ([Chapter 2: Anatomy of an SData URL](../../core/0200/ "2 Anatomy of an SData URL")) is fairly restrictive 
due to the initial, more normative approach adopted at the time.

The proposals presented in the upcoming sub-sections remove a number of current rules and 
restrictions. The intended effect is increased simplicity coupled with lending applications the ability to 
construct URLs that fit better with their natural structure and underlying technologies. 

### Liberalization of the URL structure up to the query component

**In SData 2.0 the URL structure prior to the Query component is freely definable by the 
provider.** This applies specifically to the existence and structure of the following URI Path[1](#1) subcomponents as defined by SData in the [Resource Collection URL](#) section:

*  Virtual directory:
    *  MAY be 'sdata', which is preferred 
    *  MAY be a set of several sub-segments 
*  Contract name:
    *  MAY be omitted if it is the only contract to be exposed by the provider
    *  MAY comprise several sub-segments. A meaningful sub-segment is the contract version that an 
application MAY expose
*  Application name:
    *  MAY be provided. It is recommended that the application name be a part of the URL.
*  Dataset:
    *  MAY be omitted if only one dataset is supported by the provider
    *  MAY contain several sub-segments reflecting a hierarchical dataset selection structure
    *  The composition formalism described in 1.x standard remains valid

The requirements imposed by version 1.x ([Section 2.1 Resource Collection URL](../../core/0201/ "2.1 Resource Collection URL")) become guidelines [2](#) in SData 2.0, meaning that implementations are <u>encouraged (but not forced)</u> to act accordingly.

### Reserved segments at the application level

**In SData 2.0, none of the segments mentioned below are required - these MAY be present if
required by the underlying contract:**

*  $schema: amendment to the 1.x version that required the presence of the segment
*  $service: clarification to the 1.x version
*  $queries: clarification to the 1.x version
*  $batch: amendment to the 1.x version where the $batch segment was tied exclusively to a 
resource kind URL

The corresponding SData 1.x definitions are found under:

*  [2.4 Service Operation URL](../../core/0204/)
*  [2.5 Named Query URL](../../core/0205/)
*  [2.6 Template resource URL](../../core/0206/)
*  [2.7 Resource schema URL](../../core/0207/)
*  [2.9 Intermediate URLs](../../core/0209/)
*  [13.1 Batch URL](../../core/1301/)

### Schema requirement

**In SData 2.0 the presence of the <u>schema is optional</u>.** This applies equally to application-wide and 
resource kind schemas.
SData 1.x required a schema to be present (see [2.7 Resource Schema URL](../../core/0207/ "2.7 Resource Schema URL")). While it is recognized that 
schemas are a meaningful component in application-to-application scenarios, providing and maintaining 
a schema in most other scenarios is difficult and costly. SData 2.0 lifts the existing requirement and 
leaves it up to the contract to require the presence of a schema.

## SData payload elements

The structure SData content is aligned with the ATOM specification, according to the initial direction we 
took. ATOM divides the payload in three levels (a division maintained in the JSON format):

*  The feed: envelops a set of resources
*  An entry: envelops a single resource
*  A property: is an individual information carrier in the context of a resource

The following sub-sections present the upcoming SData 2.0 changes for each level. 

### Feed level

The following subsections discuss feed-level aspects of the SData 2.0 standard, namely:

*  Namespaces
*  Protocol-defined elements
*  Links
*  Categories

#### Namespaces

Namespaces are relevant only for the atom+xml format. The table below shows namespaces and their 
compliance level for SData 2.0:

Namespace | Compliance level
--- | ---
**Http** | MUST
**Atom** | MUST
**SData** | MUST
**Xsi** | MAY (meaningful only when schemas are involved)
**Opensearch** | MAY; meaningful only when paging is implemented
**Sle** | MAY; meaningful in a very reduced number of cases

Non-essential namespaces (sle, xsi, and others) should be used as dictated by the individual necessities
of a scenario. 

#### Protocol-defined elements

SData 2.0 recognizes two payload formats: atom+xml and json. 

ATOM elements [3](#3) are dictated by the ATOM specification and SData, being ATOM conformant, MUST 
require the presence of these elements in the atom+xml format. As only moderate benefits are derived 
in the SData from ATOM elements, the support is kept at a minimum . The SData 1.x definitions are found 
in section [3.2 Feed Elements](../../core/0302/).

In the JSON format, not being attached to a standard, SData keeps a free hand. Most of the ATOM 
elements deemed meaningful for JSON maintain similar names - these are preceded by a $ (example: 
title in atom becomes $title in JSON).

The following table presents the SData 2.0 feed-level elements:

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>&nbsp;</th><th>Sdata 1.x</th><th>SData 2.0 ATOM</th><th>SData 2.0 JSON</th><th>Notest</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>id</th><td>MUST</td><td>MUST</td><td>NO</td><td>In JSON, this information is carried by the $url object 
(see below)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>title</th><td>MUST</td><td>MUST</td><td>MAY</td><td>Just as a matter of good practice, encourage people to 
fill this</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>updated</th><td>MUST</td><td>MUST</td><td>MAY</td><td>Meaningful for syndication context but with little value 
for SData. In practice, we will not compute on every 
GET the updated value for the whole feed.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>author</th><td>SHOULD</td><td>MAY</td><td>NO</td><td>A relaxation to the 1.x standard</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>summary</th><td>MAY</td><td>MAY</td><td>NO</td><td>To be specified only if value can be derived from the 
element</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>category</th><td>SHOULD</td><td>NO</td><td>NO</td><td>This is a candidate for <strong>deprecation</strong></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>xml:base</th><td>NO</td><td>SHOULD</td><td>NO</td><td>Allows specification of relative URLs, thus greatly 
reducing the size of the payloads (see [XMLbase specification](http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlbase-20010627/))</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$resources</th><td>NO</td><td>NO</td><td>MUST</td><td>The JSON object that envelopes individual resources</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$baseUrl</th><td>NO</td><td>NO</td><td>MAY</td><td>The JSON pendant to the xml:base attribute</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$url</th><td>NO</td><td>NO</td><td>MAY</td><td>The JSON pendant to the ID and Self ATOM links</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$links</th><td>NO</td><td>NO</td><td>MAY</td><td>The JSON object encompassing the link elements of a 
feed</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th style="border-bottom-color: #62ac2e;">$diagnosis</th><td>NO</td><td>NO</td><td>MAY</td><td>The JSON pendant to the ATOM diagnosis element 
(see: <a href="../../core/AppendixB/" title="Appendix B: sdata.xsd">sdata.xsd</a> and <a href="../../core/0310/">3.10 Error Payload</a>)</td>
    </tr>
</table>


#### Links 

Links are used to point to resources (data, services, etc.) related to an object. In the atom+xml format, 
links have a standardized format (see section 4.2.7 of the [ATOM syndication format](#)). In JSON, links are 
represented as sub-objects of the $links object mentioned previously.

**In the SData 2.0 specification of any specific link is optional.** Specific links may be required by a 
contract, the standard however does not impose any such requirements.

SData 2.0 recommends that the URL components of a link object (with the exception of the ATOM id
element) be defined relatively. This is achieved by using: 

*  the xml:base attribute in the atom+xml format
*  the $baseUrl name-value pair in JSON 

The names of links are not standardized in the 1.x version of the SData standard. Although no 
standardization effort is undertaken by the SData 2.0 version, it is recommended that the [IANA Link relations](#) be consulted prior to defining a new link name. The following is a list of links as they emerged in 
examples of the 1.x version and their handling in the 2.0 version:

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>&nbsp;</th><th>SData 1.x</th><th>SData 2.0</th><th>Notes</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>self</th><td>MUST</td><td>MAY</td><td>It seems a little odd to include this at all as it is the same almost always identical to the ATOM ID element. However, existing 
implementations may rely upon its presence</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>first</th><td>MAY</td><td>MAY</td><td>Only in conjunction with a paged feed</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>next</th><td>''</td><td>''</td><td>''</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>prev</th><td>''</td><td>''</td><td>''</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>last</th><td>''</td><td>''</td><td>''</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>schema</th><td>MUST (XML)</td><td>MAY</td><td>Points to schema location of a resource kind</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>template</th><td>MAY</td><td>MAY</td><td>Points to template of a resource kind</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>post</th><td>MAY</td><td>MAY</td><td>Points to location of POST operation for a resource kind</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>queries</th><td>MAY</td><td>MAY</td><td>Points to location of relevant queries of a resource kind</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>service</th><td>MAY</td><td>MAY</td><td>Points to location of relevant services of a resource kind</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th style="border-bottom-color: #62ac2e;">batch</th><td>MAY</td><td>MAY</td><td>Points to location of relevant batching services of a resource kind</td>
    </tr>
</table>


#### Categories

The Categories feature is a candidate for deprecation. Anyone with reasons to request support for this 
feature in SData 2.0 should do so on the corresponding Open team.

### Entry level

The following subsections discuss Entry-level aspects of the SData 2.0 standard, namely:

*  [Protocol-defined elements](# "?")
*  [Links](# "?")

#### Protocol-defined elements

As mentioned in the corresponding section of the Feed Level chapter, for the atom+xml format the 
existence and nature of protocol defined elements results from the ATOM syndication definition. 

In the JSON format the ATOM element names are prefixed by a **$** (example: author becomes $author). 
Additionally, as JSON had no attributes support, these are represented by objects or name-value pairs 
(see for example $key in the table).

The corresponding SData 1.x definitions are found in section [3.7 Typical Feed Entry](../../core/0307/). The following table 
presents the SData 2.0 entry-level elements: 

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Element</th><th>SData 1.x</th><th>SData 2.0 ATOM</th><th>SData 2.0 Json</th><th>Notes</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>id</th><td>MUST</td><td>MUST</td><td>NO</td><td>$url is the JSON counterpart</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>title</th><td>MUST</td><td>MUST</td><td>MAY</td><td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>updated</th><td>MUST</td><td>MUST</td><td>MAY</td><td>This is an alternate version recognition mechanism to 
the etag.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>author</th><td>SHOULD</td><td>MAY</td><td>MAY</td><td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>summary</th><td>MAY</td><td>MAY</td><td>MAY</td><td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>category</th><td>SHOULD</td><td>NO</td><td>NO</td><td>This is a deprecation candidate</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>content</th><td>SHOULD</td><td>MAY</td><td>NO</td><td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>payload</th><td>MUST</td><td>MUST</td><td>NO</td><td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>etag</th><td>MAY</td><td>MAY</td><td>MAY</td><td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$url</th><td>NO</td><td>NO</td><td>MAY</td><td>$url points to the entry. It is the JSON counterpart to 
the ATOM ID.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$key</th><td>NO</td><td>NO</td><td>MAY</td><td>$key contains the value of the primary key of an 
entry. It is the JSON representation of the propertylevel attribute key</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$properties</th><td>NO</td><td>NO</td><td>MAY</td><td>Container for metadata associated with the entry</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$links</th><td>NO</td><td>NO</td><td>MAY</td><td>Object containing links that present functional aspects 
of the resource (example: edit, lookup, create). They are to be understood as <a href="#">hypermedia controls</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th style="border-bottom-color: #62ac2e;">$diagnosis</th><td>NO</td><td>NO</td><td>MAY</td><td>The JSON pendant to the ATOM diagnoses element 
(see: <a href="../../core/AppendixB/" title="Appendix B: sdata.xsd">sdata.xsd</a> and <a href="../../core/0310/">3.10 Error Payload</a>)</td>
    </tr>
</table>


#### Links

**In the SData 2.0 specification of any specific link is optional.**

The discussion on feed-level links holds true for entry-level links as well. A more comprehensive
standardization on links is currently under consideration.

### Property level

There are several <u>xml</u> attributes defined in the [sdata.xsd](../../core/AppendixB/ "Appendix B: sdata.xsd") document that may annotate a resource's 
properties; these remain valid in SData 2.0. 

As JSON has no comparable mechanism, xml attributes are represented in JSON as name/value pairs:

<table>
    <tr>
        <th style="width: 160px;">atom-xml attribute name</th><th>JSON name</th><th>JSON Value type</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th style="text-align: left;">key</th><td>$key</td><td>String</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th style="text-align: left;">url</th><td>$url</td><td>String</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th style="text-align: left;">uuid</th><td>$uuid</td><td>String</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th style="text-align: left;">lookup</th><td>$lookup</td><td>String (is a link located in the $links object)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th style="text-align: left;">descriptor</th><td>$title</td><td>String</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th style="text-align: left;">isDeleted</th><td>$isDeleted</td><td>Boolean</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th style="text-align: left;">deleteMissing</th><td>$deleteMissing</td><td>Boolean</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th style="text-align: left;border-bottom-color: #62ac2e;">index</th><td>$index</td><td>Reserved</td>
    </tr>
</table>

## Requesting content by means of media type negotiation

SData 1.x relied solely on the atom+xml format. SData 2.0 introduces support of the JSON format on par 
with atom+xml, giving applications the freedom to operate in any one or both formats. A consumer can 
explicitly request one of the supported formats or alternatively, rely upon the default provider response. 

### Explicit request

The explicit request for a format is achieved by specifying the media type "atom+xml" or "json" within 
the Accept header of the request or as a query parameter as shown below:


<table>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Accept header</td>
    <td>Atom</td>
    <td>Accept: application/atom+xml;vnd.sage=sdata</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>JSON</td>
    <td>Accept: application/json;vnd.sage=sdata</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Format URL parameter</td>
    <td>Atom</td>
    <td>&hellip;?format=application/atom+xml;vnd.sage=sdata</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>JSON</td>
    <td>&hellip;?format=application/json;vnd.sage=sdata</td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Default/implicit request

A contract can (and should) specify the default format it operates on. The default is chosen to service the 
majority of the incoming requests without additional specification from the consumer. The following 
defaults are suggested:

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Media type</th><th>Defaults to</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Application/json</td><td>Application/json;vnd.sage=sdata</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Application/xml</td><td>Application/atom+xml</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>No media type specified</td><td>Use the contract specified default</td>
    </tr>
</table>


Contracts not explicitly naming a default format are assumed to have the application/atom+xml
default. This ensures consistency with the current SData 1.x implementations. 

### Operations

The SData 1.x. specification describes the following logical operations:

*  [7 Read Operation](../../core/0700/)
*  [6 Queries](../../core/0600/)
*  [8 Create Operation](../../core/0800/)
*  [9 Update Operation](../../core/0900/)
*  [10 Delete Operation](../../core/1000/)

SData 2.0 logical operations are implemented through HTTP verbs as shown in the table below:

<table class="left">
    <tr>
        <th>SData operation</th><th>HTTP Verb</th><th>Compliance level</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>Read</th><td>GET</td><td>SHOULD</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>Update - full contents</th><td>PUT</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>Update - partial contents</th><td>PATCH</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>Create operation</th><td>POST</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>Delete operation</th><td>DELETE</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th style="border-bottom-color: #62ac2e;">Queries</th><td>GET</td><td>SHOULD: support of the basic query set. 
Properties usable in queries are at least:
<ul>
  <li>sdata:key property if one is defined</li>
  <li>sdata:uuid property if one is defined</li>
</ul>
MAY for other properties</td>
    </tr>
</table>


The [PATCH](#) support is a new addition to SData; it supplants the PUT verb usage for [partial payloads](../../core/0902/ "9.2 Update Payloads"). The 
usage of PUT for partial updates is **deprecated** with SData 2.0.  Existing implementations may still use 
PUT, but should consider switching to PATCH in upcoming releases.

## Authorization

SData 1.x discusses authorization aspects in the security section ([5 Security](../../core/0500/ "5 Security")) of the standard. **These 
remain valid in SData 2.0.**

SData 2.0 will provide means to integrate with SageID and will specify the needed support for single sign 
on. The relevant documents are currently under development. 

## Status and error codes

SData 1.x presents in section [3.10 Error payload](../../core/0310/) the information exchange from provider to consumer. 
**These remain valid in SData 2.0.**

The JSON object structure for the diagnoses and diagnosis xml elements are described in the JSON documentation. 


***
<a name="1">1.</a> URI Path as defined in [section 3 of RFC 3986](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-3 "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Syntax Components")   
<a name="2">2.</a> This is a 'lesson learned' from the practical experiences with implementations of the standard. It was recognized 
that the objective needs of products and contracts, in combination with the underlying development tools, do not 
easily conform to the 1.x requirements. The relaxation reduces the implementation and maintenance effort of 
delivery teams.