---
layout: page
group: 20
level: 0
title: JSON Formatted responses
---

## Purpose

This paper describes the JSON format for SData content. The focus is placed on the structural aspects of 
content and representation of the protocol-mandated information. The details of metadata usage are 
handled in a separate document.

The document is aimed at a technical audience who has had a prior exposure to the SData protocol. 

The information in this document has not been approved by the standard body governing SData. As 
such, it should be treated as a preview and a snapshot to the upcoming JSON aspect in SData.

## Introduction to the JSON formalism

JSON is an open, text-based data exchange format (see [RFC 4627](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4627.txt)). Like XML, it is human-readable, and 
platform independent. Data formatted according to the JSON standard is lightweight and can be parsed 
by JavaScript implementations with incredible ease, making it an ideal data exchange format for web 
applications.

The information transported through JSON is always in form of the following basic types:

*  strings: double-quoted Unicode (UTF-8 by default), with backslash escaping
*  numbers
*  Boolean values: true or false
*  null

The JSON building block is the name-content tuple. The name is always a quote-enclosed string and is 
separated from the content by a ":" character. The content of a JSON tuple can be either:

*  A value in one of the basic types   
    Example : "firstName" : "Ted"
*  An ordered set of contents, delimited by square brackets ("["  "]")   
    Example: "continents"  : [ "Europe" , "Africa", "Asia", "Americas", "Australia", "Antarctica" ]
*  A JSON object. JSON objects are **unordered** sets of name-content pairs. The only restriction is 
that within a set the names are unique. The name-content pairs are separated by a comma (",") 
and enclosed by curly brackets ("{" "}")   
Example: { "street" : "Augartenstrasse", "number" : 1, "city" : 
"Karlsruhe", "country" : "Germany"}

This is it! JSON is simple, yet very expressive and also less verbose than XML. 

## Formatting native objects in JSON

Representing a native data container in JSON is a straightforward task, guided by the following rules:

*  Scalar properties and their values are represented as JSON name-value pairs
*  Structural elements and sub-objects are represented as JSON objects
*  Collections are represented as JSON arrays

### Expressing a simple data object in JSON
Let us consider a simplified SalesOrderLine object of the following structure and values:

*  productName -> "iPad"
*  productID  -> 437
*  lineNumber  -> 1
*  orderedQuantity -> 2
*  unitPrice  -> 399.95

We note that the object contains scalar properties that translate easily into JSON name-value pairs. Thus, 
the JSON representation would be:

<pre>
{ 
    "productName" : "iPad", 
    "productID" : "437",
    "lineNumber" : 1,
    "orderedQuantity" : 2, 
    "unitPrice" : 399.95
}
</pre>


### Expressing a data object with embedded structures in JSON

Let us alter the example above by grouping the product-related properties in an own structure:

*  product
    *  name    -> "iPad"
    *  ID     -> "437"
*  lineNumber    -> 1
*  orderedQuantity -> 2
*  unitPrice    -> 399.95

In this case, the product structure would be represented as a JSON object in its own right. Thus, the JSON 
representation is:

<pre>
{
    "product" : { 
        "productName" : "iPad", 
        "productID"  : "437" 
    },
    "lineNumber" : 1,
    "orderedQuantity" : 2, 
    "unitPrice" : 399.95
}
</pre>


### Expressing an object with an embedded collection

A usual example of an object containing a collection of data elements is the SalesOrder. It contains a 
collection of line items for the individual positions in the order itself. A simplified SalesOrder structure is: 

*  orderDate
*  shipDate
*  contact
    *  firstName  -> "John"
    *  lastName   -> "Doe"
    *  email    -> "john.doe@acme.com"
*  orderLines - containing
    *  lineNumber  -> 1
    *  orderedQuantity -> 2
    *  unitPrice  -> 399.95
    *  product
    *  name  -> "iPad"
    *  ID   -> 437   
    *and*
    *  lineNumber  -> 2
    *  orderedQuantity -> 1
    *  unitPrice  -> 323.00
    *  product
    *  name  -> "Samsung Galaxy S2"
    *  ID   -> 932
    *  subtotal   -> 1021.95
    
In the translation we observe the following:

*  orderDate, shipDate and subtotal are scalar properties that should be represented as JSON 
name-value pairs
*  contact is a structural element, and therefore to be represented as a JSON object. The contact 
properties firstName, lastName and email are scalar properties expressed as name-value JSON 
pairs
*  orderLines is a collection, and should be represented as a JSON array. The array elements, the 
individual line items are structural elements translating into JSON objects.
*  product is a structural element, mapping to a JSON object
*  All remaining properties are scalar, hence representable as name-value JSON pairs.

The resulting JSON representation is:

<pre>
{
    "orderDate" : "2001-07-01" , 
    "shippedDate" : null, 
    "contact" : {
        "firstName" : "John", 
        "lastName"  : "Doe", 
        "email"  : "john.doe@acme.com"
    }, // end contact
    "orderLines" : 
        [ {
            "lineNumber"  : 1,
            "orderedQuantity" : 2, 
            "unitPrice"  : 399.95,
            "product" : { 
                "name" : "iPad", 
                "ID"  : "437"
            } //end product
          }, {
            "lineNumber"  : 2,
            "orderedQuantity" : 1, 
            "unitPrice"  : 323.00,
            "product" : { 
                "name" : "Samsung Galaxy S2", 
                "ID"  : "932"
            } //end product
          } 
        ], // end orderLines
    "subtotal" : 1021.95
}
</pre>

## Requesting JSON formatted SData content

The JSON and atom+xml formats are of equal importance from a protocol perspective - a difference to 
the SData 1.x . Consequently, the desired format of a response is specified by the consumer in its 
request. 

If a consumer wants to be certain to get a response in the SData JSON format, it will request this using 
the "application/json;vnd.sage=sdata" media type. This is achieved in two ways:

1. through the HTTP Accept header:   
    Accept: application/json;vnd.sage=sdata 
2. using format query parameter on the request URL:   

     http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/prod/accounts?format=application/json;vnd.sage=sdata

The first mechanism should be used when the consumer (the user agent) will systematically request the 
JSON format. The second one is more appropriate when the consumer normally uses ATOM but switches 
to JSON occasionally.

### Default formats of a contract

A contract may be particularly suitable to one or the other formats (ex: a contract for mobile devices will 
very likely return JSON). In such cases, for expedience and ease of programming, a default response 
format can be defined at the contract level. The default format will be returned when requests without a 
specific media type are sent to a provider.

The SData JSON format MAY be returned by an application by default when:

*  it is the default format for contract 
*  JSON responses are per default conformant to the SData structural requirements


## JSON responses

Provider responses to requests in (and for) JSON are in one of the following forms:

*  An entry: this is the representation of an individual resource and contains the native, JSON 
formatted objects
*  A feed: is a collection of entries 
*  A diagnosis : returned in case something went wrong with the request
*  A tracking object: returned for an asynchronous call to enable subsequent polling of results

### JSON entries

Entries encompass single resources such as a specific Customer or SalesOrder. Payloads will contain a 
single entry only when the request operates target an individual resource (ex: GET on a [single resource](#) 
URL or PUT/POST/DELETE operations).

In addition to the native properties of the resource, SData allows within an entry the presence of several 
protocol-defined properties meant to ease consumption. These are described in the table below:

<table class="left">
    <tr>
        <th>&nbsp;</th><th>Description</th><th>Compliance</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$url</th><td>
            URL pointing to the resource.<br />   
The URL <u>should</u> be represented as relative to the value of the 
<a href="#">$baseUrl</a> of the enclosing feed.<br /><br /> 

<i>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>Examples:</strong><br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;given the  "$baseUrl": "http://ex.com/MyApp/-/-/"
<ul>
  <li>"$url": "customers('1234')"</li>
  <li>"$url": "customers?where=$uuid eq 'ab1C43sd-c1asdc2sT'"</li>
</ul>
</i>
If a $baseUrl property is not specified, then the URL MUST be 
absolute. <br />
<i>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>Examples:</strong><br />
<ul>
  <li>"$url": "<a href="http://ex.com/MyApp/-/-/customers('1234')">http://ex.com/MyApp/-/-/customers('1234')</a>"</li>
  <li>"$url": "http://ex.com/MyApp/-/-/customers?where=$uuid eq 'ab1C43sd-c1asd-c2sT'"</li>
</ul></i>
        </td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$key</th><td>the native primary key identifying the resource</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$uuid</th><td>UUID identifying the resource</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$title</th><td>humanly readable description of the resource</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$updated</th><td>the time stamp of the last update of the resource, formatted 
according <a href="http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime">to ISO 8601 dateTime</a> specification</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$etag</th><td>opaque identifier assigned by the provider to a version of a resource</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$properties<a style="color:#fff;" href="#1">&sup1;</a></th><td>Object containing metadata for the properties of the resource</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$links<a style="color:#fff;" href="#2">&sup2;</a></th><td>Object containing links that present functional aspects of the resource
(ex: edit, lookup, create). They are to be understood as <a href="#">hypermedia controls</a></td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$diagnosis</th><td>Object containing a more detailed indication of errors and warnings 
encountered by the provider during the execution of a request</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th><i>native properties</i></th><td>Native properties of the object</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
</table>

An example is the JSON variant of the [Typical SData Entry](../../core/0307/ "3.7 Typical Feed Entry") in the SData documentation:

<pre>
&hellip;
$baseUrl : <a href="http://www.acme.com/MyApp/-/-/">http://www.acme.com/MyApp/-/-/</a>,
&hellip;
{ 
    "$url": "salesOrders('43660')", 
    "$updated": "2008-03-31T13:46:45Z", 
    "$key": "43660", 
    "$title": "Sales Order 43660", 
    "$etag": "gJaGtgHyuAwW6jMI4i0njA==", 
    "orderDate": "2001-07-01", 
    "shipDate": null, 
    "contact": { 
        "$url": "contacts('216')", 
        "$key": "216" 
    }, 
    "subTotal": 1553.10 
}
</pre>

### JSON feeds

Feeds are collections of entries, returned by operations targeting several resources in parallel such as 
read or query operations on resource kinds. A feed is a JSON object with all entries contained in the 
$resources array - this is the only required property of a feed.

A feed may also contain a set of SData-defined properties, which are described in the table below:

<table class="left">
    <tr>
        <th>&nbsp;</th><th>Description</th><th>Compliance</th>
    </tr>
    
    <tr>
        <th>$resources</th><td>Array containing the individual entries</td><td>MUST</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$baseUrl</th><td>URL leading to the resource kind level of an application. The URL MUST end 
in a "/"<br />
<strong>Example:</strong><br />
<i>"$baseUrl": "http://www.acme.com/MyApp/MyContract/-/"</i></td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>

    
    <tr>
        <th>$url</th><td>
            URL pointing to the resources returned.<br />   
The URL <u>should</u> be represented as relative to the $baseUrl value.<br /><br /> 

<i>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>Examples:</strong><br />
<ul>
  <li>"$url": "customers"</li>
  <li>"$url": "customers?where=name ge 'm'"</li>
</ul>
</i>
If a $baseUrl property is not specified, then the URL MUST be absolute. <br />
<i>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>Examples:</strong><br />
<ul>
  <li>"$url": "<a href="http://ex.com/MyApp/-/-/customers">http://ex.com/MyApp/-/-/customers</a>"</li>
  <li>"$url": "http://ex.com/MyApp/-/-/customers?where=name ge 'm'"</li>
</ul></i>
        </td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$title</th><td>humanly readable description of the resource</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$updated</th><td>the time stamp of the last update of the resource, formatted 
according <a href="http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime">to ISO 8601 dateTime</a> specification</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$links<a style="color:#fff;" href="#3">&sup3;</a></th><td>Object containing links that present functional aspects of the feed
(ex: refresh, first-page, schema, template, &hellip;). They are to be understood as <a href="#">hypermedia controls</a></td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$diagnosis</th><td>Object containing a more detailed indication of errors and warnings 
encountered by the provider during the execution of a request</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
</table>

An example is the JSON variant of the [SData Typical Feed](../../core/0301/ "3.1 Typical Feed") :

<pre>
{ 
    "$baseUrl": "https://www.example.com/MyApp/-/-/"
    "$url": "salesOrders", 
    "$title": "Sage App | Sales Orders", 
    "$totalResults": 31465, 
    "$startIndex": 1, 
    "$itemsPerPage": 10, 
    "$resources": [
        { 
            "$updated": "2008-03-31T13:46:45Z", 
            "$key": "43660", 
            "$title": "Sales Order 43660", 
            "$etag": "gJaGtgHyuAwW6jMI4i0njA==", 
            "orderDate": "2001-07-01", 
            "shipDate": null, 
            "contact": {
                "$url": "contacts('216')", 
                "$key": "216" 
            },
            "subTotal": 1553.10 
        },
        { 
            "$updated": "2008-03-31T13:46:45Z", 
            "$key": "43661", 
            "$title": "Sales Order 43660", 
            "$etag": "3nqPeQqoGoxQB5xf3NIijw==", 
            "orderDate": "2001-07-01", 
            "shipDate": null, 
            "contact": { 
                "$url": "contacts('281')", 
                "$key": "281" 
            }, 
            "subTotal": 39422.12 
        } 
    ] 
}
</pre>

### JSON diagnosis 

The [diagnoses](#) is an object that contains information about the status (information, warning, error) of a 
request's execution. Such an object MUST be present in a response if errors were encountered during 
the execution. The xml format of diagnosis is described in the SData protocol in the [3.10: Error payload](../../core/0310/) 
section.   
The JSON format of the diagnosis objects supports the following properties:

<table class="left">
    <tr>
        <th></th><th>Description</th><th>Compliance</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$severity</th><td>Severity of the diagnosis entry. Possible values are:<br />
<ul>
  <li>Info</li>
  <li>Warning</li>
  <li>Transient</li>
  <li>Error</li>
  <li>Fatal</li>
</ul>
        </td><td>MUST</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$sdataCode</th><td>The SData diagnosis code</td><td>MUST</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$applicationCode</th><td>Application specific diagnosis code</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$message</th><td>Friendly message for the diagnosis</td><td>SHOULD</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$stackTrace</th><td>Stack trace - to be used with care</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$payloadPath</th><td>XPath expression that refers to the payload element 
responsible for the error</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
</table>

An example of a diagnoses JSON object is shown below:

<pre>
{
    "$diagnoses": [
        { 
            "$severity": "error", 
            "$sdataCode": "BadWhereSyntax", 
            "$message": "Invalid query syntax",
            "$applicationCode": "2403"
        } 
    ] 
}
</pre>

### JSON tracking

The tracking object MUST be returned by a provider in response of an [asynchronous operation](../../core/1105/ "11.5 Asynchronous Operations"). SData 
describes a set of [properties that can be provided in a tracking](../../core/0311/ "3.11 Tracking Payload") object. For JSON, these are:

<table class="left">
    <tr>
        <th></th><th>Description</th><th>Compliance</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$phase</th><td>End user message describing the current phase of the 
operation.</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$phaseDetail</th><td>Detailed message for the progress within the current phase.</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$progress</th><td>Percentage of operation completed.</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$elapsedSeconds</th><td>Time elapsed since operation started, in seconds. </td><td>MUST</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$remainingSeconds</th><td>Expected remaining time, in seconds.</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$pollingMillis</th><td>Delay (in milliseconds) that the consumer should use before polling the service again.</td><td>MUST</td>
    </tr>
</table>

An example of a tracking JSON object is shown below:

<pre>
{
    "$tracking": {
        "$phase": "Archiving FY 2007", 
        "$phaseDetail": "Compressing file archive.dat", 
        "$progress": 12.0, 
        "$elapsedSeconds": 95, 
        "$remainingSeconds": 568, 
        "$pollingMillis": 500 
    } 
}
</pre>

## A note to SData ATOM+xml users

If you are intimately aware of the ATOM+xml format of SData as described in the [SData 1.x standard](../../core/0313/ "3.13 SData Atom Extensions"), you 
will have noticed that some ATOM mandated elements are not present in the JSON objects of this 
document. The reason is that these are meaningful in a syndication context but have little relevance in 
the general SData application. The elements omitted are:

*  Envelope markup <feed> : no longer needed due to representation as a JSON object 
*  Envelope markup <entry> : no longer needed due to representation as a JSON object
*  &lt;id&gt; : information is carried by the $url element
*  &lt;link rel='self'&gt; : information is carried by the $url element
*  &lt;author&gt;
*  &lt;category&gt;


***
<a name="1">1.</a> will be described in detail in another paper on JSON metadata and its usage.   
<a name="2">2.</a> will be described in detail in another paper on JSON metadata and its usage.   
<a name="3">3.</a> will be described in detail in another paper on JSON metadata and its usage.