---
layout: page
group: 20
level: 1
title: 7.1  Basic types
---

## <a name="sdata-boolean">7.1.1  sdata/boolean</a>

The sdata/boolean type conforms to the JSON Boolean type with values that can be either true or 
false.

## <a name="sdata-string">7.1.2  sdata/string</a>

The sdata/string type conforms to the JSON string type. 

An sdata/string type specification can be complemented through an additional format definition. This 
defines an underlying pattern for the string. The following $format specifications are defined:

*  email:  the string MUST consist of an email address conforming to RFC 5322, "Internet Message Format" [4]. 
*  currency:  the string MUST consist of an alphabetic 3 letter code conforming to [ISO 4217](http://iso4217.net/), 
"Codes for the representation of currencies and funds" [5].
*  locale:  the string MUST conform to the format specified in the HTTP [Accept-Language header](http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec14.html)
and detailed in the [language tags](http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec3.html#sec3.10) specification of section 3.10 of RFC 2616, "Hypertext Transfer 
Protocol - HTTP/1.1" [6]. 
*  country:  the string must consist of an alphabetic 2 letter code conforming to [ISO 3166-1](http://www.iso.org/iso/home/standards/country_codes/iso-3166-1_decoding_table.htm#LF),
"Codes for the representation of names of countries and their subdivisions" [7].
*  phone: the string SHOULD consist of a valid dialling sequence.  Due to the lack of a widely 
accepted standard, no specific recommendation is made on conformance, but restriction of
characters to "'0'..'9', '+', '-', ' ', '.', '(', ')'" (i.e., numbers, the plus sign 
conventionally used to indicate a nationally defined prefix for International Direct Dialling, and 
the dash, space, period and brackets commonly used to separate and group elements of a 
dialling sequence) is encouraged to aid interoperability.

Other formats can be defined as deemed necessary through contracts. 

Example:   Some properties of a fictional Contact resource could be expressed as follows:

<pre>
{
    "..." : "...",
    "countryOfResidence" : {
        "$type" : "sdata/string",
        "$format" : "country"
    }, 
    "preferredCurrency" : {
        "$type" : "sdata/string",
        "$format" : "currency"
    },
    "displayLanguage" : {
        "$type" : "sdata/string",
        "$format" : "locale"
    },
    "emailAddress" : {
        "$type" : "sdata/string",
        "$format" : "email"
    },
    "telephone" : {
        "$type" : "sdata/string",
        "$format" : "phone"
    }
}
</pre>

The payload for a resource conforming to this definition could look like:

<pre>
{
    "..." : "...",
    "countryOfResidence" : "GB", 
    "preferredCurrency" : "GBP",
    "displayLanguage" : "en-GB",
    "emailAddress" : "john.doe@example.org", 
    "telephone" : "+44 191 294 3000"
}
</pre>

## <a name="sdata-number">7.1.3  sdata/number</a>

The sdata/number type is equivalent to the JSON number type.  Both specifications can be used in an 
SData context.

Example: 

*  "avogadroConstant": 6.0221413e+23 

## <a name="sdata-integer">7.1.4  sdata/integer</a>

An sdata/integer property contains a (possibly signed) integer value.

Examples:

*  "kilo": 1024
*  "minusOne": -1

## <a name="sdata-decimal">7.1.5  sdata/decimal</a>

The sdata/decimal type is a string representing a (possibly signed) rational number with a finite 
number of decimal places.  The decimal point is a period.  The string type is necessary since some 
languages, such as JavaScript, have difficulties in representing decimal numbers (for example, 0.1 + 0.2 
=== 0.3 is false in JavaScript).

The metadata elements $totalDigits and $fractionDigits allow a more precise description if it is 
required.

Example: 

*  "exchangeRate": "1.2990"

## <a name="sdata-date">7.1.6  sdata/date</a>

The sdata/date type is a string representing a date.  The format of the contents MUST correspond to 
the "YYYY-MM-DD" representation as defined in the [ISO8601](http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime) specification [8].

Example: 

*  "creationDate": "2014-07-16"

## <a name="sdata-time">7.1.7  sdata/time</a>

The sdata/time type is a string representing the time of day.  The format of the contents MUST 
correspond to the "extended format" of "hh:mm:ss" of the [ISO8601](http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime) specification [8], with an optional 
fractional part to the seconds.   In addition, it is RECOMMENDED that the value contain the time-zone 
information as recommended by [8], although this may not be appropriate in some cases (for example, 
times for recurring events in locales using Daylight Savings).

Example: 

*  "lastUpdatedTime": "20:30Z"
*  "lastUpdatedTime": "20:30:12+02:00"
*  "lastUpdatedTime": "20:30:12.435-01:00"

## <a name="sdata-datetime">7.1.8  sdata/datetime</a>

The sdata/datetime type is a string representing a time on a particular date.  The format of the 
contents MUST correspond to the [ISO8601](http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime) specification [8], with the date and time parts following the 
SData requirements above.  In addition, SData REQUIRES that the value contain the time-zone 
information as recommended by the standard.

Examples: 

*  "invoicePrintedAt": "2014-07-16T19:20:30+1:00"
*  "invoicePrintedAt": "2014-07-16T19:20:30Z"

***