---
layout: page
group: 20
level: 1
title: 8.2 Link structure
---

An SData Link object consists of several properties aiming to decouple the consumer from a provider. 
These are:

<table class="left">
    <tr>
        <th></th><th></th><th>Description</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$url</th><td>MUST</td><td>The URL pointing to a resource.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$method</th><td>MAY</td><td>HTTP method used to operate on the resource. - <strong>default : GET</strong></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$title</th><td>SHOULD</td><td>Localized label/caption for the link.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$id</th><td>MAY</td><td>MAY be used to identify a link in a specific context.  This property MUST be set for prototype links if several prototypes are available for a resource.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$body</th><td>MAY</td><td>The object containing the payload transported to the provider alongside the request.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$invocation</th><td>MAY</td><td>The manner in which the provider should process the request <a href="#6">6</a>.<br />
        Allowable values are: 
        <ul>
  <li><strong>sync [default]</strong>,</li> 
  <li>async,</li> 
  <li>syncOrAsync.</li></ul>
  </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$batch</th><td>MAY</td><td>Expresses the manner of invocations supported in batch by the 
provider.<br /> 
Allowable values are: 
<ul>
  <li><strong>false [default]</strong>: indicates batching is not supported, </li>
  <li>true.</li>
</ul>
</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$request</th><td>MAY</td><td>Contains either: 
        <ol>
<li>URL of a prototype (see <a href="../05-1000/" title="">Section 10</a>)</li>
<li>JSON object containing the description of request's individual parameters.</li>
</ol>
The <strong>omission</strong> of $request indicates that the request has <strong>no parameters</strong>.  Should parameters exist, their description is found in 
the contained $properties object.<br />
An individual parameter object has a unique name and contains the 
following properties:
<ul>
<li>$title [optional]: human-readable parameter name.</li>
<li><strong>$type [mandatory]</strong>: defines the type of the parameter.</li>
</ul>
</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$response</th><td>MAY</td>
        <td>
        Contains either
        <ol>
            <li>URL of a prototype (see <a href="../05-1000/" title="">Section 10</a>)</li>
            <li>JSON object containing the description of request's 
expected response. The description of the properties 
returned by the provider is found in the enclosed 
$properties object</li>
        </ol>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>$type</th><td>MAY</td><td>The SData type(application/json;vnd.sage=sdata) or MIME type of the resource. If omitted, the contract default is returned</td>
    </tr>
</table>

Example:  Consider an SData object that exposes links for deletion and update operations. This would be 
expressed as:

<pre>
{
    "$links": {
        "$updateFull": {
            "$title": "Update the resource",
            "$type": "application/json;vnd.sage=sdata",
            "$url": "{$url}",
            "$method": "PUT"
        },
        "$delete": {
            "$title": "Delete this resource",
            "$type": "application/json;vnd.sage=sdata",
            "$url": "{$url}",
            "$method": "DELETE"
        }
    }
}
</pre>

The URL used is the same with the URL of the resource in this case. The {$url} notation indicates a 
replacement with a resource value as explained in section 6 of this document.

***
<a name="6">6</a>. This should not be confused with client-side AJAX requests. The mechanism corresponds to the sme:invocationMethod described in section [11.4](../../core/1104/ "11.4 Synchronous Operations") and [11.5](../../core/1105/ "11.5 Asynchronous Operations") of the SData 1.1 standard