---
layout: page
group: 20
level: 1
title: 9 Embedded metadata
---

SData payloads contain embedded metadata elements of two kinds:

*  SData-defined elements: used throughout this document and collected in [Appendix A](../05-AppendixA/).
*  Application specific metadata elements.

Metadata inclusion in a JSON response is governed by the following rules:

*  SData metadata for an object is presented as properties of the objects, along-side the native 
properties of the object. Given the leading $, it is possible to distinguish between the two.
*  SData metadata pertaining to properties of an object is collected in a $properties object
within the object itself.  The structure of the $properties is as follows:
    *  properties of the $properties JSON object mirror the native properties of the original 
object (and have the same name). 
    *  the contents are objects enclosing the metadata elements pertaining to corresponding 
native properties.
*  The capability metadata elements (canRead, canUpdate, canDelete, canCreate) are replaced 
in their functionality by **links**.  

Embedded metadata SHOULD be an exception, meant to override/extend the information contained 
in the prototype (see section 10 for more details on prototypes). In this manner, it is possible to 
significantly reduce the volume of information transferred from the provider to the consumer.

Example:   Consider a Product object with the following structure and data:

Product   

*  name     -> "iPhone"
*  ID      -> "4711"
*  unitPrice  ->  459.00
*  stock    -> "available"  [read only]

In this example, the value of the stock property is computed by the underlying application and therefore 
readOnly.  Retrieving this product by means of a GET operation on &hellip;/Products('4711') we should get 
the following format in JSON for the product in question:

<pre>
{ 
    "$url" : "https://www.example.com/sdata/myapp/-/-/products('4711')", 
    "$key" : "4711", 
    "name" : "iPhone", 
    "ID" : "4711", 
    "unitPrice" : 459.00, 
    "stock" : "available", 
    "$properties" : {
        "stock" : { "$isReadOnly" : true}
    }
}
</pre>

The result shows the SData required elements $url and $key embedded at the same level as the native 
properties of the object.  Additionally, the $properties contains a stock object with the name-value 
pair passing the $isReadOnly attribute value to the caller.

***