---
layout: page
group: sdata-20
level: 1
title: Compliance
---

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", 
"RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 
2119, "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" [9].

A provider SHOULD consider metadata support in its payloads. This has the advantage of supporting for 
more dynamic/flexible clients that usually rely on metadata to interact with users. However, if the 
particular use case does not require metadata and its support would burden the development effort, a 
provider need not implement it.

If metadata is supported, the provider MAY choose to support [prototypes](../05-1000/ "10 SData prototypes") but MUST support [embedded metadata](../05-0400/ "4 Requesting metadata"). 

If a prototype for the targeted resource exists, the provider MUST return it in the payload for a GET 
request with the '?includePrototype=true' specification; if no prototype exists, the specification has 
no effect.

The amount of metadata returned is a provider specific decision. A reasonable expectation is that, if 
prototypes are supported, the embedded metadata would consist only of overrides to the prototype.

A consumer MAY leverage the metadata existent in a response. If it does so then, <u>unless otherwise 
specified in the underlying contract</u>:

*  If a prototype exists, then this MUST be retrieved and the [merge process](../05-1004/ "10.4 Merge process") MUST be applied.
*  The [substitution process](../05-0600/ "6 Substitution formalism") MUST be applied.

## <a name="references" href="#references">References</a>

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Number</th><th>Title</th><th>Version</th><th>Date</th><th>Author</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>1</td><td><strong>SData</strong>  <i>Welcome to SData</i></td><td>1.1</td><td>2011</td><td>Sage Group plc</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>2</td><td><strong>RFC 4627</strong>  <i>The application/json 
Media Type for JavaScript 
Object Notation (JSON)</i></td><td>Informational</td><td>July 2006</td><td>Internet Engineering 
Task Force</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>3</td><td><strong>RFC 6570</strong>  <i>URI Template</i></td><td>Proposed 
Standard</td><td>March 2012</td><td>Internet Engineering 
Task Force</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>4</td><td><strong>RFC 5322</strong>  <i>Internet Message 
Format</i></td><td>Draft Standard</td><td>October 
2008</td><td>Internet Engineering 
Task Force</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>5</td><td><strong>ISO 4217</strong>  <i>Codes for the 
representation of currencies and 
funds</i></td><td>-</td><td>2008</td><td>International 
Organization for 
Standardization</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>6</td><td><strong>RFC 2616</strong>  <i>Hypertext Transfer 
Protocol -- HTTP/1.1</i></td><td>Standard</td><td>June 1999</td><td>Internet Engineering 
Task Force</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>7</td><td><strong>ISO 3166-1</strong>  <i>Codes for the 
representation of names of 
countries and their subdivisions 
- Part 1: Country codes</i></td><td>-</td><td>2006</td><td>International 
Organization for 
Standardization</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>8</td><td><strong>ISO 8601</strong> <i>Data elements and 
interchange formats -
Information interchange -
Representation of dates and 
times</i></td><td>Third Edition</td><td>03-Dec-2004</td><td>International 
Organization for 
Standardization</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>9</td><td><strong>RFC 2119</strong>  <i>Key words for use in 
RFCs to Indicate Requirement 
Levels</i></td><td>Best Current 
Practice</td><td></td><td>Internet Engineering 
Task Force</td>
    </tr>
</table>

***