---
layout: page
group: sdata-20
level: 0
title: SageID integration
---

# <a name="introduction" href="#introduction">Introduction</a>

## <a name="background" href="#background">Background</a>

SData [1] is a standards-based protocol used by many Sage products to share information and promote 
integration. SData is based on HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol), the protocol that powers most of the 
internet traffic around the globe, and is suitable for use in Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), 
mobile applications, and for application integration.

SData is published under a Creative Commons Licence, and may be freely reused as a specification.

SData version 1.0 was published in 2010, and updated in 2011 to the current version, v1.1. This 
document, along with four others defines the next version of SData, 2.0, which focuses on simplifying the 
protocol and introduces full support for JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) [2], alongside the XML and 
Atom support introduced in SData v1.0.

The full set of documents defining SData 2.0 is:


<table>
    <tr>
        <td><strong>"The underlying approach to evolving SData"</strong></td>
        <td>Outlines how the SData Working Group approached the task of updating the SData protocol while ensuring compatibility with implementations of version 1.0 and 1.1 already in use.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><strong>"SData 2.0 Core"</strong></td><td>Defines the main elements of the SData protocol, explains how these 
elements are being updated (and in some cases, relaxed) for the 2.0 
release, and outlines how JSON is being integrated into these elements.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><strong>"JSON formatted SData responses"</strong></td>
        <td>Defines the JSON format for SData content, focusing on structural aspects of content and representation.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><strong>"SData 2.0 Expressing metadata in JSON"</strong></td>
        <td>Builds on the JSON formatted SData responses to define how providers should express metadata in JSON.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><strong>"SData 2.0 and Sage ID"</strong></td><td>This document. Specifies how Sage ID Authentication is handled in 
SData 2.0.</td>
    </tr>
</table>

## <a name="overview" href="#overview">Overview</a>

Sage ID is the user authentication service for Sage online products and services. Further information 
about Sage ID can be found online at http://docs.sso.sagessdp.co.uk (username: ssodocs, password: Q9VdcpfkWFbT).

This document specifies how Sage ID tokens should be used in conjunction with SData 2.0.

***